docs/docs/usage/command-line.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Command-Line
permalink: /usage/command-line/
---

## Gossamer Command

The `gossamer` command is the root command for the `gossamer` package (`cmd/gossamer`). The root command starts the node (and initialises the node if the node has not already been initialised). 

### Accepted Formats

```
gossamer [--global-flags] [--local-flags]
```

```
gossamer [--local-flags] [--global-flags] 
```

### Global flags

The global flags can be used in conjunction with any Gossamer command

```
--basepath value   Data directory for the node 
--chain value      Node implementation id used to load default node configuration
--config value     TOML configuration file
--cpuprof          File to write CPU profile to
--log value        Supports levels crit (silent) to trce (trace) (default: "info")
--memprof          File to write memory profile to
--name value       Node implementation name
--rewind value     Rewind head of chain by given number of blocks
```

### Local flags

These are the local flags that can be used with the `gossamer` command

```
--bootnodes value  Comma separated enode URLs for network discovery bootstrap
--key value        Specify a test keyring account to use: eg --key=alice
--help, -h         show help
--nobootstrap      Disables network bootstrapping (mdns still enabled)
--nomdns           Disables network mdns discovery
--port value       Set network listening port (default: 0)
--protocol value   Set protocol id
--roles value      Roles of the gossamer node
--rpc-external     Enable the external HTTP-RPC server
--rpchost value    HTTP-RPC server listening hostname
--rpcport value    HTTP-RPC server listening port (default: 0)
--rpcmods value    API modules to enable via HTTP-RPC, comma separated list
--unlock value     Unlock an account. 
                   eg. --unlock=0,2 to unlock accounts 0 and 2. 
                   Can be used with --password=[password] to avoid prompt. 
                   For multiple passwords, do --password=password1,password2
--ws-external      Enable the external websockets server
--wsport value     Websockets server listening port (default: 0)
--version, -v      print the version
```


## Gossamer Subcommands

List of available ***subcommands***:

```
SUBCOMMANDS:
    help, h        Shows a list of commands or help for one command
    account        Create and manage node keystore accounts
    export         Export configuration values to TOML configuration file
    init           Initialise node databases and load genesis data to state
```

List of ***local flags*** for `init` subcommand:

```
--force            Disable all confirm prompts (the same as answering "Y" to all)
--genesis value    Path to genesis JSON file
```

List of ***local flags*** for `account` subcommand:

```
--generate         Generate a new keypair. If type is not specified, defaults to sr25519
--password value   Password used to encrypt the keystore. Used with --generate or --unlock
--import value     Import encrypted keystore file generated with gossamer
--import-raw value Imports a raw private key
--list             List node keys
--ed25519          Specify account type as ed25519
--sr25519          Specify account type as sr25519
--secp256k1        Specify account type as secp256k1
```

List of ***local flag*** options for `export` subcommand:

```
--force            Disable all confirm prompts (the same as answering "Y" to all)
--genesis value    Path to genesis JSON file
--key value        Specify a test keyring account to use: eg --key=alice
--unlock value     Unlock an account. eg. --unlock=0,2 to unlock accounts 0 and 2. Can be used with --password=[password] to avoid prompt. For multiple passwords, do --password=password1,password2
--port value       Set network listening port (default: 0)
--bootnodes value  Comma separated enode URLs for network discovery bootstrap
--protocol value   Set protocol id
--roles value      Roles of the gossamer node
--nobootstrap      Disables network bootstrapping (mdns still enabled)
--nomdns           Disables network mdns discovery
--rpc              Enable the HTTP-RPC server
--rpc-external     Enable external HTTP-RPC connections
--rpchost value    HTTP-RPC server listening hostname
--rpcport value    HTTP-RPC server listening port (default: 0)
--rpcmods value    API modules to enable via HTTP-RPC, comma separated list
--ws               Enable the websockets server
--ws-external      Enable external websockets connections
--wsport value     Websockets server listening port (default: 0)
```

### Accepted Formats

```
gossamer [--global-flags] [subcommand] [--local-flags]
```

```
gossamer [subcommand] [--global-flags] [--local-flags]
```

```
gossamer [subcommand] [--local-flags] [--global-flags]
```

### Invalid Formats

_please note that `[--local-flags]` must come after `[subcommand]`_

```
gossamer [--local-flags] [subcommand] [--global-flags] 
```

```
gossamer [--local-flags] [--global-flags] [subcommand] 
```

```
gossamer [--global-flags] [--local-flags] [subcommand] 
```

## Running Node Roles

Run an authority node:
```
./bin/gossamer --key alice --roles 4
```

Run a non-authority node:
```
./bin/gossamer --key alice --roles 1
```

## Running Multiple Nodes

Two options for running another node at the same time...

(1) copy the config file at `cfg/gssmr/config.toml` and manually update `port` and `base-path`:
```
cp cfg/gssmr/config.toml cfg/gssmr/bob.toml
# open bob.toml, set port=7002 and base-path=~/.gossamer/gssmr-bob
# set roles=4 to also make bob an authority node, or roles=1 to make bob a non-authority node
./bin/gossamer --key bob --config cfg/gssmr/bob.toml
```

or run with port, base-path flags:
```
./bin/gossmer --key bob --port 7002 --base-path ~/.gossamer/gssmr-bob --roles 4
```

To run more than two nodes, repeat steps for bob with a new `port` and `base-path` replacing `bob`.

Available built-in keys:
```
./bin/gossmer --key alice
./bin/gossmer --key bob
./bin/gossmer --key charlie
./bin/gossmer --key dave
./bin/gossmer --key eve
./bin/gossmer --key ferdie
./bin/gossmer --key george
./bin/gossmer --key heather
```

## Initialising Nodes

To initialise or re-initialise a node, use the init subcommand `init`:
```
./bin/gossamer init
./bin/gossamer --key alice --roles 4
```

`init` can be used with the `--base-path` or `--config` flag to re-initialise a custom node (ie, `bob` from the example above):
```
./bin/gossamer --config node/gssmr/bob.toml init
```

## Export Configuration

`export` can be used with the `gossamer` root command-line and `--config` as the export path to export a toml configuration file.

Commit message:

feat(pprof): Pprof HTTP server service (#1991)
- Add a pprof HTTP server service to dot node
  - `internal/httpserver` package
  - `internal/pprof` package
- Configurable server listening address from flags and toml config file
- Configurable pprof server on/off from flags and toml config file
- Configurable mutex profile fraction from flags and toml config file
- Configurable block profile rate from flags and toml config file
- Pprof documentation
- Remove pprof to file operation and `--cpuprof` and `--memprof` flags

docs/docs/usage/command-line.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Command-Line
permalink: /usage/command-line/
---

## Gossamer Command

The `gossamer` command is the root command for the `gossamer` package (`cmd/gossamer`). The root command starts the node (and initialises the node if the node has not already been initialised). 

### Accepted Formats

```
gossamer [--global-flags] [--local-flags]
```

```
gossamer [--local-flags] [--global-flags] 
```

### Global flags

The global flags can be used in conjunction with any Gossamer command

```
--basepath value   Data directory for the node 
--chain value      Node implementation id used to load default node configuration
--config value     TOML configuration file
--log value        Supports levels crit (silent) to trce (trace) (default: "info")
--name value       Node implementation name
--rewind value     Rewind head of chain by given number of blocks
--pprofserver      Enable or disable the pprof HTTP server
--pprofaddress     pprof HTTP server listening address, if it is enabled.
--pprofblockrate   pprof block rate. See https://pkg.go.dev/runtime#SetBlockProfileRate.
--pprofmutexrate   profiling mutex rate. See https://pkg.go.dev/runtime#SetMutexProfileFraction.
```

### Local flags

These are the local flags that can be used with the `gossamer` command

```
--bootnodes value  Comma separated enode URLs for network discovery bootstrap
--key value        Specify a test keyring account to use: eg --key=alice
--help, -h         show help
--nobootstrap      Disables network bootstrapping (mdns still enabled)
--nomdns           Disables network mdns discovery
--port value       Set network listening port (default: 0)
--protocol value   Set protocol id
--roles value      Roles of the gossamer node
--rpc-external     Enable the external HTTP-RPC server
--rpchost value    HTTP-RPC server listening hostname
--rpcport value    HTTP-RPC server listening port (default: 0)
--rpcmods value    API modules to enable via HTTP-RPC, comma separated list
--unlock value     Unlock an account. 
                   eg. --unlock=0,2 to unlock accounts 0 and 2. 
                   Can be used with --password=[password] to avoid prompt. 
                   For multiple passwords, do --password=password1,password2
--ws-external      Enable the external websockets server
--wsport value     Websockets server listening port (default: 0)
--version, -v      print the version
```


## Gossamer Subcommands

List of available ***subcommands***:

```
SUBCOMMANDS:
    help, h        Shows a list of commands or help for one command
    account        Create and manage node keystore accounts
    export         Export configuration values to TOML configuration file
    init           Initialise node databases and load genesis data to state
```

List of ***local flags*** for `init` subcommand:

```
--force            Disable all confirm prompts (the same as answering "Y" to all)
--genesis value    Path to genesis JSON file
```

List of ***local flags*** for `account` subcommand:

```
--generate         Generate a new keypair. If type is not specified, defaults to sr25519
--password value   Password used to encrypt the keystore. Used with --generate or --unlock
--import value     Import encrypted keystore file generated with gossamer
--import-raw value Imports a raw private key
--list             List node keys
--ed25519          Specify account type as ed25519
--sr25519          Specify account type as sr25519
--secp256k1        Specify account type as secp256k1
```

List of ***local flag*** options for `export` subcommand:

```
--force            Disable all confirm prompts (the same as answering "Y" to all)
--genesis value    Path to genesis JSON file
--key value        Specify a test keyring account to use: eg --key=alice
--unlock value     Unlock an account. eg. --unlock=0,2 to unlock accounts 0 and 2. Can be used with --password=[password] to avoid prompt. For multiple passwords, do --password=password1,password2
--port value       Set network listening port (default: 0)
--bootnodes value  Comma separated enode URLs for network discovery bootstrap
--protocol value   Set protocol id
--roles value      Roles of the gossamer node
--nobootstrap      Disables network bootstrapping (mdns still enabled)
--nomdns           Disables network mdns discovery
--rpc              Enable the HTTP-RPC server
--rpc-external     Enable external HTTP-RPC connections
--rpchost value    HTTP-RPC server listening hostname
--rpcport value    HTTP-RPC server listening port (default: 0)
--rpcmods value    API modules to enable via HTTP-RPC, comma separated list
--ws               Enable the websockets server
--ws-external      Enable external websockets connections
--wsport value     Websockets server listening port (default: 0)
```

### Accepted Formats

```
gossamer [--global-flags] [subcommand] [--local-flags]
```

```
gossamer [subcommand] [--global-flags] [--local-flags]
```

```
gossamer [subcommand] [--local-flags] [--global-flags]
```

### Invalid Formats

_please note that `[--local-flags]` must come after `[subcommand]`_

```
gossamer [--local-flags] [subcommand] [--global-flags] 
```

```
gossamer [--local-flags] [--global-flags] [subcommand] 
```

```
gossamer [--global-flags] [--local-flags] [subcommand] 
```

## Running Node Roles

Run an authority node:
```
./bin/gossamer --key alice --roles 4
```

Run a non-authority node:
```
./bin/gossamer --key alice --roles 1
```

## Running Multiple Nodes

Two options for running another node at the same time...

(1) copy the config file at `cfg/gssmr/config.toml` and manually update `port` and `base-path`:
```
cp cfg/gssmr/config.toml cfg/gssmr/bob.toml
# open bob.toml, set port=7002 and base-path=~/.gossamer/gssmr-bob
# set roles=4 to also make bob an authority node, or roles=1 to make bob a non-authority node
./bin/gossamer --key bob --config cfg/gssmr/bob.toml
```

or run with port, base-path flags:
```
./bin/gossmer --key bob --port 7002 --base-path ~/.gossamer/gssmr-bob --roles 4
```

To run more than two nodes, repeat steps for bob with a new `port` and `base-path` replacing `bob`.

Available built-in keys:
```
./bin/gossmer --key alice
./bin/gossmer --key bob
./bin/gossmer --key charlie
./bin/gossmer --key dave
./bin/gossmer --key eve
./bin/gossmer --key ferdie
./bin/gossmer --key george
./bin/gossmer --key heather
```

## Initialising Nodes

To initialise or re-initialise a node, use the init subcommand `init`:
```
./bin/gossamer init
./bin/gossamer --key alice --roles 4
```

`init` can be used with the `--base-path` or `--config` flag to re-initialise a custom node (ie, `bob` from the example above):
```
./bin/gossamer --config node/gssmr/bob.toml init
```

## Export Configuration

`export` can be used with the `gossamer` root command-line and `--config` as the export path to export a toml configuration file.
